Now I'm at a point where that weight
wants to crush me.
It wants to push me down.
So, holding that brace for the eccentric
is
is where it's at. So,
this is where if I
have a successful eccentric and [music]
land where the barbell is in line with
my mid-foot,
you know, that's that's when it should
be good.
Boom.
Yeah.
Does that person look like if there was
25 more kilograms on the bar that it
would have come up?
The answer is it would be tough. Today
I'm attempting a one rep max. Hopefully
it's not a absolute max. This is week
two of my program. Last week I did 260
kg as my top set and it looked like he
was pretty close to my limit and it
looked like maybe I had a little bit
more in the tank. However, I believe
I've got more today because it's week
two and it's not because I got stronger
in a week, but it's because I've given
my body a week to think about and
familiarize itself with the task at
hand, which is lifting a heavy single.
For the last few phases I've been doing
high rep work and I've lost the
conditioning with my low rep high load
work. So, this is why, you know, I
always say it's a bad idea for people to
do rep work and then every now and then
out of the blue come and test their max
because testing a max is a skill. One
rep max lifting is a skill and you need
to condition your body for that skill.
So, for me it's week two and I don't
think that it takes two weeks to develop
the skill. I think it takes a little bit
longer. Usually I would spread it out
over much longer period. So, if I was to
training train for a competition, I'd
probably give myself six to eight weeks
before competition before I start
working towards heavy singles, not
necessarily one rep maxes like 100% of
your one rep max, you know, heavy
singles with around the 90% mark. So,
leaving repetitions in reserve but
teaching your body how to handle those
demands because there's a lot especially
with a squat that goes behind maxing
out. So, something that's very very
different that you guys at home would
probably understand is if you're doing
you know, a set of 10 on a squat, a big
part of it is, you know, un-racking the
weight and walking out. If you're doing
a set of 10, that's usually about 70% of
your max, you don't think too much about
the un-rack and and how that feels, but
when you're doing a one rep max, the
un-rack it's different. You need to
start thinking about how heavy it is
from the moment you un-rack. So, you
need to un-rack it accurately,
precisely. You need to brace properly.
You need to have your head in the right
place before you even un-rack it.
Whereas, you know, if you're doing sets
of 10 and it's a pretty light weight, I
don't really need to psych up for that
lift or psych up for the un-rack. I need
to, um, you know, work [clears throat]
hard, of course, but it's a very
different sensation. So, today because
it's a max, my uh, my mindset is going
to be very different to how it has been
when I'm talking about my high rep work
and my high hypertrophy work. So, I'm
not going to be doing a whole lot of
talking. Instead, you're going to see
how I mentally prepare myself for my max
because it's a big thing. Uh, something
that I will tell you before I get
started is my mindset and the way that I
used to prepare myself for max has
changed a lot over the years. When I was
a beginner, me and my team, we used to
get behind each other and scream really
loud and and slap each others' backs
and, uh, you know, sniff ammonia. You
know, some people still like to do that,
uh, but, you know, my approach has
changed a lot over the years. For me, I
don't like that, you know, high state of
arousal. That's There's actually, um, a
lot of discussion on this topic where
they say it's, um, you know, it's a bell
curve, um, the arousal bell curve where
you say, you know, the bottom of that
bell curve, that's that's not very
aroused, right? So, you're you're not
switched on, you're not psyched up, but
then we get peak arousal, which isn't,
um, you know, like maximally psyched up,
it's the right level. So, it's peak
carryover from the arousal is where
we've switched on a little bit, we've
increased the focus and that's where we
get the most carryover and that's when
we're mentally in the right place before
we max out. But then you get to a point
where you're too aroused, too much back
slapping, too much screaming where that
curve drops off, where the carryover
from the heightened arousal has starts
to have a negative effect to the point
where, uh, it's actually weaker. So,
that was me in my early years. The back
slaps, the screaming, it's very energy
consuming and you need to figure out
what's right for you. I've been to
competitions where people walk around
all day long in their psyched up state
and I'll tell you now something that I
learned. Actually, the first person that
I saw doing this was a fellow by the
name of Benedikt Magnusson. If you don't
know who that is, he's the biggest
powerlifting style, so bare hands,
conventional deadlifter in the world.
So, he held that world record, he still
holds that world record. Of course, the
powerlifting world record has been
broken but only with sumo, uh, and Thor
Björnsson holds it under strongman
rules, which is with straps. So,
Benedikt Magnusson deadlifted 1,015 lb,
which is 461 kg with his bare hands. And
the first time I saw him in real life
when he was competing, it was really
really strange. Uh, before the
competition, he fell asleep backstage.
Yeah, it was really really strange. Um,
I was there with my brother because I
was competing on the same day and we
were in the change room in the back
room. Sorry, the warm-up room, not
change room. We're in the warm-up room
and Benedikt was sleeping up until it's
time for him to lift. And then when he
goes to lift, he puts on quite the
performance. It's incredible to watch
him lift. You know, he's got his his
whole ritual where he gets he puts his
mind in a place of of maximal arousal,
heightened arousal that absolutely works
for him and he's very very strong. But
he's not like that the whole time. He's
not psyching himself up for hours
backstage before the lift. So, this is
something that I learned, it was a real
eye-opener for me when I was working
with high-level lifters and this is, you
know, experiences with working with Thor
Björnsson is before competitions, we
want to be as calm as possible to save
our energy. And that doesn't mean step
on stage calm. If you step on stage
calm, remember that bell curve, there's
too little amount of arousal, uh, is is
not in the right mindset for maximum
lifting. You need to have, you know,
whatever that point is, whether it's
aggression or peak focus or whatever it
is, everybody's different. For me, I
know what I am now. I'm focused. I
don't, um,
I don't scream and I don't mind, you
know, people around me like great
lifters. If it's an absolute beginner
that doesn't understand the feeling of
of what it's like to max out at a high
level, if they're screaming in the
background, it's a little bit
off-putting and and, you know, usually I
like to have a team of of strong
lifters. So, if ever you've seen my
videos that I post on Instagram where
I'm maxing out, you will see my team. My
team involves a lot of Australian record
holders and really really strong people.
And when they scream, um, it's not
coming from a place of just mindless
screaming, it's coming from a place of I
know where your head is at, let's get
this and it's really really motivating
when you've got like-minded people
around you. So, kind of like that's how
I like to be, but I still don't scream.
I still don't slap myself and I don't
like to be slapped. Um, so that's
something that I'll always recommend is
whenever I'm working with somebody is,
you know, is to manage that fatigue from
that heightened state of arousal and
make sure that you bring it when it
actually matters because it's fatiguing.
I'll repeat that, it's fatiguing. So,
the next thing is, you know, warming up
to that top set, you know, right now
I've got an empty barbell here that I'm
going to go and do a set of. I don't
want to be psyched up now. I'll have no
music. I might put music on today that
can be motivating for me. Um, it does it
does act as a trigger for me when I've,
um, you know, when I've got a really
serious lift. Like if I was to do a life
or death situation, which doesn't exist,
but if there was, I would probably want
some music because I do believe that I
perform better that way. Um, but, you
know, while I'm warming up, I don't want
that heightened state of arousal. I want
to manage that so I'm, you know, quite
calm in the beginning of the session and
as it gets heavier, I get a little bit
more and more focused, uh, because
that's fatiguing. That's the fatiguing
part. Of course, lifting is fatiguing,
but, you know, managing your whatever
the stress hormones that are going on.
So, call it adrenaline or cortisol or
whatever it is, you know, you get to a
point where, you know, you can bring on
too much of that and then you get an
adrenaline dump is what I call it. I
don't know if that's the exact hormonal,
um, situation that's occurring, but
that's, you know, it makes sense to me.
Sometimes when it's too much, it's too
stimulating especially when you're, you
know, you're wasting all of that that
back slapping and screaming on your
warm-up sets. You get time to the top
set, you get you you know, you approach
your top set and you are absolutely
exhausted. You know, and I could go on
and on about this and I I want to make
one more point. I noticed this in
martial arts. I love watching the
fights, I love UFC and it's the same
thing. I've worked with some of the best
fighters in the world, some UFC fighters
and they talk about the same thing about
how they used to, you know, go backstage
and and put on loud music blasting for
hours before their fight to get them in
that optimal state before a fight and
it's not the right position to be in.
It's too fatiguing, you know, and on the
flip side of that, there is such thing
as being too relaxed. So, I had a, you
know, a lot of experiences with some of
my friends who have stepped in the ring
at the highest level and have been too
relaxed walking in because that's the
instructions that they've been given
from their coaches is just to relax and,
um, you know, to get in a a less
aroused, uh, state of mind because they
believe that to be effective. No, not
necessarily. For some people, maybe. You
need to figure out what is right for
you. Anyway, that's a lot of chat on
arousal. Uh, now it's time for me to
warm up. So, I've got the empty bar and
look, I'll just say it straight out. My
goal is 270 kg today, which is five red
plates aside. That's heavy. Last week I
did 260 and it was really really hard.
So, for me to get 270 today, I need to
get this right. So, we're going to start
with an empty barbell and I'm going to
go through my warm-ups and I'm not going
to talk up until the end and then I'll
chat to you then.
>> [panting]
[sighs]
>> You can never tell at this weight. You
know, it's so far away from it's less
than half of the max.
Um what's this next weight? Well, this
is getting more than half of the max.
So,
it should all feel easy. So,
my knees and hips feel good. These days
my biggest challenge is
shoulders and grabbing onto the bar.
I started doing more and more mobility
work on my shoulders, but
that's the biggest challenge. So, coming
underneath, you'll see and a lot of you
at home say, "Why are you holding the
bar so wide? I thought you teach to hold
the bar close." I do. The cue is to hold
the bar as close as your shoulder
mobility allows. That's just as close as
my shoulder mobility allows. So, I want
to get as close as possible and whenever
I'm coaching people, I bring them in as
close as they can go.
That's just as close as I can go. So,
that's probably the biggest point of
discomfort for me is uh
getting my hands in place.
So,
you know, every set I try and inch my
hands in a little bit more. So, if you
just saw then, I had it's called the
talon grip, which is where you have you
know, get rid of the pinky.
Right? So, I want to grab it with a full
fist, but a lot of the times if you lack
the mobility, what happens is that talon
grip, you grab the bar with three
fingers instead of four.
With the three fingers, it allows you to
angle your wrist in a way that's nicer
on the shoulders. So, sometimes when
people lack shoulder mobility, that's a
really nice alternative.
But for me, I find it even stronger if I
was to get that extra pinky finger over
the top because look at the position of
my wrist. I can I can kind of grab it
just by the fingertips, but when I grab
my whole hand over it, look at my elbow
position.
See what happens? So, to grab the bar, I
have to bring my elbows
out a little bit more, which increases
the tension on my on my
upper back brace.
Right? So,
every set I come in.
So, then it was kind of like that was
the warm-up sets before this was hands
on the plates. That was the first one
where I got the talon grip, but it
wasn't even I had my my hand open like
this. So, then the next set I want to
try and close my hand on it and then
slowly slowly get that pinky around so
I've got a full fist of that barbell and
that's where I want to be for my top
set. So,
every So, everything that I do is about
increasing
the tension, increasing the
the neural arousal every set that I come
in. So,
basically, that weight should move the
same from every single warm-up weight.
It kind of moves the same. It's the same
degree of difficulty because I'm
slightly more switched on. I've
increased my upper back tension. The
next thing that I do is look at my belt
settings. So, this is my favorite belt.
This is the best belt belt in the world.
So, this is Pioneer. So, their lever
allows me to go setting by setting. So,
my first set, it's loose.
And then every set not quite every set,
I'll do a couple of sets and then I'll
go tighter and tighter. And by the time
I'm I'm on my top set, I'll have it on
the the So, right now that's too tight
for me to get down with this weight. But
when I have 270 kg on my back, that
support makes sense for me. So, my hands
will be in closer, the belt will be a
little bit tighter, and I'll be more and
more switched on and you're going to
notice that every set.
Even strangely, I know it looks like my
shoulders are not enjoying it, but that
felt at that position like
I feel like it's a little bit better
than what it's been the last few weeks.
So, it's improving.
It's improving for sure.
It's a 20.
That's three more sets.
220, 245,
270.
>> [sighs and panting]
>> So, now this is my last warm-up.
So, as I was mentioning with
getting everything tighter and tighter
every set,
I don't want to introduce a new level of
tension
from my last warm-up to the
top set.
So, what do I mean by that is
now I'm going to go to my maximum
tension on the belt
and I'm going to grab the barbell with
my pinky on the inside.
So, that's how I'm going to do this next
set, which is the exact way that I want
to do my top set.
So,
those little changes make small
adjustments in the technique. And what I
always like to do, as I said, as I go
tighter and tighter, same with when I'm
doing knee wraps squats, I like to have
my last warm-up set, I tighten my knee
wraps as tight as I'm going to have it
on my working set. So, I'm
you know,
the tighter you go, the easier it
becomes, but at the same time it's a
slightly different technique and I don't
want any new introductions to technique.
I've had times where I've had my belt
too tight for a top set and it's
interfered with it. So, that's why my
you know, it's like my intention is to
go maximum tension on the last warm-up
set, but I'm still allowing if that's
too tight, it's like, "Okay, cool. Lucky
I did it then and not on the top set."
So, then I can make the adjustment and
go looser if I need to. But at least
this gives me a one set of practice. So,
that 245 is going to be one set of
practice It's only one set. One practice
repetition of the exact settings that
I'm going to have on my top set.
Haha. Nervous is how I feel.
So, now it's like everything is hard.
I'm going to look back and that's why I
love the video
is because that felt hard. It's like
when I unrack it, it's hard on my back.
Damn, it's hard on my back.
Not like injury, it's just heavy. It's
like when I pick it up, it's like
Like I know I can lift it. Doesn't mean
it's not heavy.
So,
the thing that I love about the video
is
you can't feel the video. Right? So, I
look at the video and all I'm looking at
is bar speed.
And you can't feel whether that felt
heavy for the unrack or whatever it was.
So, what I'm looking for is to see what
did this guy look like
when he lifted it and how much more So,
that's what I am pretty good at when I'm
coaching people.
I look at how much they have left in the
tank.
It's like
that looks good.
It's like I look at that and it's like,
"Does that guy look like he could put 50
more kilos on that bar?"
Yes.
Yes, he does.
Um
I'm going to do chains now.
>> [music]
[sighs]
[panting]
>> We're working now.
So,
I felt like that was the first set that
I'd pushed.
The sets before I'm
creating so much tension in my body
that I can just bounce out of the hole.
Of course, I'm working as well, but that
one I can't just rely on the bounce and
the brace. I've got to I've got to then
push. So, that was the first set that I
had to do that. It wasn't just the sets
before I can
hold it in place,
lower it in the perfect position,
and then bounce out of the hole, and
then it's up.
Now, it's bounce and work.
Also, the lowering phase is getting hard
now.
>> [sighs and gasps]
>> So, that
now I'm at a point where that weight
wants to crush me.
It wants to push me down. So, holding
that brace for the eccentric is
is where it's at. So,
this is where if I
have a successful eccentric and land
where the barbell is in line with my
midfoot,
you know, that's that's when it should
be good.
Boom.
Yeah.
Does that person look like if there was
25 more kilograms on the bar that it
would have come up?
The answer is it would be tough, but
yes.
So, that's I know what I'm in for now.
I'm in for this one's tough. It's time
to work.
>> [sighs]
>> Come on.
Come on.
Let's go.
>> [music]
>> Let's go.
>> That was hard.
That was hard.
As I knew it would be.
Thank you.
You were scared? I was scared, man.
Yes, so now like this is where we get
This is me with bumper plates on here.
This is me showing off.
You know, it looks better, and I love
the feeling of that.
But realistically, the bigger the bumper
plates,
the wider out it goes on the bar,
the more whip we have. That was pretty
controlled.
It was pretty controlled.
I'd like to see that So, that's a shitty
angle, this one, cuz it's out of the way
of the good cameras. I'd like to see it
on
the good camera. Usually, mostly gets
the better angles.
But that's um you know, now the stress
is done.
You know, and this is something
um that I always do whenever I'm going
for a top set
is [clears throat]
really, really easy work after that.
So, not so easy that it doesn't have any
value, but I don't try and say good, we
did a really big set. That's great. Now,
we've got to work on a percentage of
that and and work really hard because
I'll tell you now, and I mean you can
tell by the way that I'm pretty relaxed
now.
My like that's my adrenaline dump,
right? So, my stress hormones are gone
now. They were all built up for that top
set, and
and I don't want to do that anymore
because it's exhausting and it's
stressful, and now I can just relax. So,
because I'm not going to be in that
state, I'll tell you now, like I
couldn't do that again. If I walked in
uh to do 270 again,
nah, I think it would feel like a ton to
unrack it because my head that's it,
it's just done. That's that's my mental
You know, it's not competition day. In
competition day, you're prepared for it.
So, if that was my opening attempt, you
know, I wouldn't sit there and celebrate
the same way or relax or say it's over.
Like right now, I'm in a training
session, and there's a very big
difference between being in a training
session and competition. Competition,
you got to stay switched on.
In a training session, you don't. And
most times when I'm working with people
that we have a big goal for the session,
they they don't want to stay switched on
like that for the entire session. It's
exhausting and it's
it's just terrible.
So, anyway,
there's my top set.
>> [sighs and gasps]
>> I'm going to do some easy stuff now. So,
I'm going to do some quadricep work. I
don't want to do more low bar. My
shoulders are
you know, they feel better, to be honest
with you. They feel better, but I'm
going to do some accessory light work,
just muck around. I'll do some high bar
stilettos squats. I'm going to change
these knee sleeves.
Um these knee sleeves are pretty
uncomfortable. They're pretty stiff.
Someone asked me a question if I use uh
tight ones. No, these aren't tight.
These are size
and I said, are they extra tight or is
that how stiff they are? Yeah, they're
quite stiff. These uh knee sleeves are
quite stiff. So, these are size large,
and I don't have big legs.
Um I tried tried on a size medium, and
they just didn't fit.
Well, I got one of them on, and it was
like it took too long, and I just sat
there just it was strangling my leg, and
I'm like, get this off me. Um so, this
isn't too tight. It's the right size.
They are very stiff, also very
uncomfortable, and you know, now like I
don't need to work that hard to get some
type of a stimulation. Like whenever I'm
doing squat work, you don't need to You
can leave repetitions in reserve. It's
not a hypertrophy session. It's a
strength session. And in fact, if all
you do is grind out like that session
after session, um it has negative
effects.
So, what you want for most majority of
the strength sessions, every now and
then you need to feel that. You need to
teach your body how to work on those
circumstances close to max like that.
Uh close to max. That was That was way
close to my max, like
>> [sighs and gasps]
>> maybe I had another 2 and 1/2 kilograms,
which would have made that 272, which
made it 600 lb. In Australia, we talk
kilograms, and 270 kg is me. Anyway,
that's me. Enough of the session. I'm
going to do some uh I'm just going to
relax now.
And uh take off the sleeves and do some
easy work. Hope you enjoyed it.
Hope you enjoyed it.
Cheers to that.
Cheers to me.
Good stuff again. That was good. Thank
you, bro.